README.md, before:

## About Neo4LDAP

**Neo4LDAP** is a query and visualization tool focused on **Active Directory environments**. It combines LDAP syntax with graph-based data analysis in Neo4j, offering an alternative approach to tools like BloodHound.

---

### 🔍 LDAP-Driven Query Engine

Neo4LDAP translates LDAP queries into Cypher internally, allowing users to:

- Run **complex and expressive queries** directly against Neo4j  
- **Avoid learning Cypher**, using familiar LDAP syntax  
- **Quickly create custom queries** and extract relevant information  

---

### 🗺️ Graph Visualization for AD Structures

Neo4LDAP provides a graph interface designed to support **large and complex directory environments**, offering:

- **Exclude nodes** to eliminate irrelevant elements
- **Temporary hide parts of the graph** to improve visibility and focus
- **Depth-limited search** to control graph size and reduce visual clutter

These features improve clarity when analyzing access paths, ACLs, and privilege escalation scenarios.

---

### 🔗 Integration with BloodHound Workflows

To support existing ecosystems, Neo4LDAP includes:

- A **data ingestion feature** for importing BloodHound JSON files  
- Support for both **Legacy** and **Community Edition (CE)** formats  

This allows Neo4LDAP to **coexist with BloodHound** and be used as a practical alternative in the Active Directory cybersecurity field.

> ⚠️ **Disclaimer:** At the moment, only on-premise data is processed, Azure data is not currectly supported.


> 📘 To maximize the effectiveness of Neo4LDAP and gain a deeper understanding of how it handles special cases and internal logic, it is highly recommended to read through the full [project wiki](https://github.com/Krypteria/Neo4LDAP/wiki). The documentation covers key design decisions, usage examples, and query behaviors that may not be immediately apparent.

# Installation

It is recommended to use a Conda virtual environment with Python 3.9.13 or higher to isolate the installation and avoid dependency conflicts:

```bash
conda create -n neo4ldap python=3.9.13
conda activate neo4ldap
```

To install Neo4LDAP, install the following Python dependencies within the conda environment using `pip`:

```bash
pip install networkx neo4j PySide6
```

It is recommended to define the following shell alias in .bashrc, .zshrc, or equivalent shell configuration:

```bash
nano ~/.bashrc

neo4ldap() {
    cd <installation path> || return
    python -m Neo4LDAP.Neo4LDAP
}

source ~/.bashrc
```

# Demo

[![NeoLDAP: Overview and Capabilities](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3e7f943d-c8eb-4c60-b2b5-7368d3e4b2c5)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5V22K3lDEFw)


# Acknowledgements

Special thanks to [@_wald0](https://twitter.com/_wald0), [@CptJesus](https://twitter.com/CptJesus), and [@harmj0y](https://twitter.com/harmj0y) for their work on **BloodHound**, a tool that has served as a foundational reference and source of inspiration for the development of Neo4LDAP.

Commit message:

Improvement in the parsing and ingestion process
The JSON parsing and addition process has been improved by switching to a concurrent model, which greatly improves efficiency and speed. Additionally, indexes have been implemented to increase the speed of search operations.

The number of neo4j sessions to use (Workers) and the number of retries in case of deadlock are now configurable through the GUI.

README.md, after:

## About Neo4LDAP

**Neo4LDAP** is a query and visualization tool focused on **Active Directory environments**. It combines LDAP syntax with graph-based data analysis in Neo4j, offering an alternative approach to tools like BloodHound.

---

### 🔍 LDAP-Driven Query Engine

Neo4LDAP translates LDAP queries into Cypher internally, allowing users to:

- Run **complex and expressive queries** directly against Neo4j  
- **Avoid learning Cypher**, using familiar LDAP syntax  
- **Quickly create custom queries** and extract relevant information  

---

### 🗺️ Graph Visualization for AD Structures

Neo4LDAP provides a graph interface designed to support **large and complex directory environments**, offering:

- **Exclude nodes** to eliminate irrelevant elements
- **Temporary hide parts of the graph** to improve visibility and focus
- **Depth-limited search** to control graph size and reduce visual clutter

These features improve clarity when analyzing access paths, ACLs, and privilege escalation scenarios.

---

### 🔗 Integration with BloodHound Workflows

To support existing ecosystems, Neo4LDAP includes:

- A **data ingestion feature** for importing BloodHound JSON files  
- Support for both **Legacy** and **Community Edition (CE)** formats  

This allows Neo4LDAP to **coexist with BloodHound** and be used as a practical alternative in the Active Directory cybersecurity field.

> ⚠️ **Disclaimer:** At the moment, only on-premise data is processed, Azure data is not currectly supported.


> 📘 To maximize the effectiveness of Neo4LDAP and gain a deeper understanding of how it handles special cases and internal logic, it is highly recommended to read through the full [project wiki](https://github.com/Krypteria/Neo4LDAP/wiki). The documentation covers key design decisions, usage examples, and query behaviors that may not be immediately apparent.
`
# Recommendations

With the current parsing and ingestion method, it is recommended not to upload JSON files larger than 150 MB, as this may affect memory efficiency. If you have a larger JSON file, it is advisable to split it into chunks using [ShredHound](https://github.com/ustayready/ShredHound) before uploading them.

# Installation

It is recommended to use a Conda virtual environment with Python 3.9.13 or higher to isolate the installation and avoid dependency conflicts:

```bash
conda create -n neo4ldap python=3.9.13
conda activate neo4ldap
```

To install Neo4LDAP, install the following Python dependencies within the conda environment using `pip`:

```bash
pip install networkx neo4j-rust-ext PySide6
```

It is recommended to define the following shell alias in .bashrc, .zshrc, or equivalent shell configuration:

```bash
nano ~/.bashrc

neo4ldap() {
    cd <installation path> || return
    python -m Neo4LDAP.Neo4LDAP
}

source ~/.bashrc
```

# Demo

[![NeoLDAP: Overview and Capabilities](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3e7f943d-c8eb-4c60-b2b5-7368d3e4b2c5)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5V22K3lDEFw)


# Acknowledgements

Special thanks to [@_wald0](https://twitter.com/_wald0), [@CptJesus](https://twitter.com/CptJesus), and [@harmj0y](https://twitter.com/harmj0y) for their work on **BloodHound**, a tool that has served as a foundational reference and source of inspiration for the development of Neo4LDAP.
